h1. Usage

This module helps you deploy your Play! application to "dotcloud":http://dotcloud.com. 

h2. Installation

First, install the module from the Play! module repository like so: 

bc. play install dotcloud

h2. Prepare your Play! application

Tell Play! that you want your application to use the dotcloud module by adding it to your @conf/dependencies.yml@ file. It might look like this: 

bc. require:
	- play
	- play -> dotcloud 0.3

Now run @play dependencies@ to install the module into your application. Then, create a @dotcloud.yml@ file in your application's @conf@ directory. The file might look like this: 

bc. www:
	type: java
db:
	type: mysql

For more information, consult the dotcloud documentation. 

h2. Push to dotcloud

To push to dotcloud, a deployment name is required. Either give it at the command line (@--deployment myapp@) or add it to your application.conf (@dotcloud.deployment=myapp@). From the Play! application's root directory, you may then issue 

@play dotcloud:deploy@

 to push the current version of your application to dotcloud. 
 
By default, application will be pushed using @prod@ id. If you want to deploy using a different id, please specify it in your conf/application.conf (@dotcloud.id=your_id@). 

h2. Specify a MySQL database

If you want to use a MySQL database also running on dotcloud, this is the format you need to use for specifying the database connection in your @application.conf@ file:

bc. %prod.db=mysql
%prod.db.url=jdbc:mysql://(subdomainOfDatabaseService).dotcloud.com:(port)/(databaseName)
%prod.db.driver=com.mysql.jdbc.Driver
%prod.db.user=(username)
%prod.db.pass=(password)

h1. Requirements

You need to have the dotcloud command line client installed. I only tested this module on Mac OS X -- it *should* work on all platforms supported by Play!, however. 

This module only works for applications that contain a single Java service. If your application uses multiple Java services, you need to use the dotcloud CLI. For example, you might have a "frontend" Play! application and a "backend" Play! application on the same dotcloud application, each deployed as its own Java service -- these setups are not supported by this module. A single Java service paired with something else like a database service works fine, however. 

For more information, consult the documentation in "this module's GitHub repository":https://github.com/lsinger/play-dotcloud. 

h1. History

0.1: Initial release during dotcloud beta phase. 

0.2: Support for new CLI (0.4.x) after dotcloud beta phase. 

0.3: Now properly uses the id specified in application.conf, thanks to Burn0ut07! 
